+++
title = "Lightweight Cloud Application Sandboxing"
date = "2023-11-09"
aliases = ["cloud", "monitoring", "instrumentation", "sandbox", "GLACIATION"]
[ author ]
  name = "Gianluca Oldani"
+++
This work addresses modern cloud applications that can quickly grow to
an elaborate and intricate tangle of services. In this scenario,
paying attention to security aspects is important to mitigate the
impact of incidents. Indeed, several research works and industrial
standards recommend the integration of least privilege policies to
prevent disruptions such as file system tampering. Unfortunately,
technologies like containers virtualize file system resources with
a volume-based approach, which may be overly coarse.
In this work we address this problem proposing an approach
that restrict application access to file system resources with a
resource-based granularity. To this end, we develop a flexible and
intuitive tool that relies on instrumentation to collect, merge, and
audit the activity traces generated by any application component.
We then demonstrate how this information is used to create finegrained access 
policies, and introduce sandboxing using recent
kernel security modules, strengthening the security boundary of
the whole application. In the experimental evaluation we showcase the mitigation 
capabilities associated with our approach, and
the low performance footprint. The proposal is associated with
an open source implementation.

##### Authors:
Marco Abbadini, Michele Beretta, Dario Facchinetti, Gianluca Oldani, Matthew Rossi, Stefano Paraboschi

##### The Paper will be presented at:&nbsp;<a href="https://parsec2.unicampania.it/cloudcom2023/" target="_blank">IEEE CLOUDCOM 2023</a>

##### <a href="https://cs.unibg.it/seclab-papers/2023/CLOUDCOM/dmng.pdf" target="_blank">Link to PDF</a>
