+++
title = "Supporting Data Owner Control in IPFS Networks"
date = "2024-07-09"
aliases = ["International Conference on Communications", "ICC", "IEEE","IPFS", "Indexes", "P2P", "File System"]
[ author ]
  name = "Gianluca Oldani"
+++
Decentralized storage architectures are emerging as valid complementary 
solutions to cloud-based storage services. 
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) is one of the most well-known distributed 
file storage protocols with wide adoption, good performance, and a variety 
of applications built over it. However, IPFS does not natively support data 
confidentiality and its decentralized nature limits the ability of data owners 
to maintain control on their resources and to force their deletion. 
This work propose Mix-IPFS, an approach that allows data owners to maintain 
control on their resources uploaded to IPFS, guaranteeing their confidentiality 
and supporting secure deletion. Mix-IPFS is based on AONT encryption, which 
has the nice property of preventing decryption if the whole ciphertext is not 
available. Data owners can permanently delete a resource by making a small 
portion of its encrypted representation unavailable. The proposed solution 
uses a virtual file system to guarantee transparency to data owners 
(i.e., they can operate on plaintext resources). The experimental evaluation 
shows that the overhead of introduced by the described method is 
negligible (less than 2% for both upload and access operations).

##### Authors:
Marco Abbadini, Michele Beretta, Sabrina De Capitani di Vimercati, Dario Facchinetti, Sara Foresti, Gianluca Oldani, Stefano Paraboschi, Pierangela Samarati, Matthew Rossi

##### Paper presented at:&nbsp;<a href="https://icc2024.ieee-icc.org/" target="_blank">ICC 2024</a>

##### <a href="https://cs.unibg.it/seclab-papers/2024/ICC/ipfs.pdf" target="_blank">Link to PDF</a>
